---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 1.Groups Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 1.Groups Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 1.Groups Job Group

The Active Directory > **1.Groups** Job Group has been configured by default to run with the default
settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

The **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group needs to be successfully executed prior to running
this job group.

**Target Host**

This job group does not collect data. No target host is required.

**Connection Profile**

This job group does not collect data. No specific Connection Profile is required.

**Schedule Frequency**

The data analyzed by the **1.Groups** Job Group jobs is collected by the **.Active Directory
Inventory** Job Group. Therefore, it is recommended to schedule these jobs to run after the .Active
Directory Inventory job group collection has completed. These jobs can be scheduled to run as
desired.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

:::info
Run the jobs in the **1.Groups** Job Group together and in order by running the
entire job group, instead of the individual jobs.
:::


**Analysis Configuration**

The **1.Groups** Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations. Most of the
analysis tasks are preconfigured for this job group.

Some analysis tasks have customizable parameters:

- The .Active Directory Inventory Solution defines large groups, deeply nested groups, and stale
  users. These parameters can be customized.

    - Customize within **.Active Directory Inventory** > **3-AD_Exceptions** Job analysis tasks

        :::note
        Changes to an exception’s definition will affect all jobs dependent upon that
        exception as well as all Access Information Center Exceptions reports.
        :::


**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Prerequisite: Run the **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group.

**Step 2 –** Schedule the **1.Groups** Job Group to run as desired after the prerequisite job has
completed.

**Step 3 –** Review the reports generated by the 1.Groups Job Group.
