---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 6.Activity Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 6.Activity Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 6.Activity Job Group

The **Active Directory** > **6.Activity** Job Group has been configured by default to run with the
out-of-the-box settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

- Successfully execute the **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group
- Netwrix Activity Monitor 4.1+ is archiving AD Activity Logs
- Successfully execute the **Active Directory** > **5.Domains Job Group** prior to running the
  Operations Job Group
- (Optional) Successfully execute the **Active Directory Permissions Analyzer** > **0.Collection**
  Job Group
- (Optional) Successfully execute the **FileSystem** > **0.Collection** Job Group

**Targeted Host(s)**

Netwrix Activity Monitor API Server or the host with the network share housing archived log files.

**Connection Profile**

Connection Profiles must be set directly on the
[0.Collection > AD_ActivityCollection Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/solutions/activedirectory/activity/ad_activitycollection.md)
in order to connect to either the SAM API Server or the host with the network share housing the
archived log files.

**Access Token**

Required for SAM API Server integration for the
[0.Collection > AD_ActivityCollection Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/solutions/activedirectory/activity/ad_activitycollection.md).

**Scheduling Frequency**

This group can be scheduled to run as desired.

:::info
Run from the 6.Activity Job Group level in order to correlate 0.Collection job
group data with other jobs.
:::


**History Retention**

History is not supported. Turning on history will cause issues with data analysis and reporting.

**Multi-Console Support**

Multiple Enterprise Auditor Consoles are not supported. This group should be run from a single
Enterprise Auditor Console.

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Successfully run the **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group.

**Step 2 –** Setup integration between the Netwrix Activity Monitor and Enterprise Auditor by using
either an API Server or the network share where the archived log files are located.

**Step 3 –** Ensure Activity Monitor logs are archived.

**Step 4 –** Configure the Connection Profiles to connect successfully to the Netwrix Activity
Monitor API Server or the host with the network share housing the archived log files.

**Step 5 –** Configure the **AD_ActivityCollection** Job Query.

**Step 6 –** Run the jobs as desired.

**Step 7 –** Run from the **6.Activity** Job Group level in order to correlate 0.Collection job
group data with other jobs.

**Step 8 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.

See the
[Active Directory Solution](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/activedirectory/activedirectory.md)
topic for additional information.
