---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 2.Users Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 2.Users Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 2.Users Job Group

The **Active Directory** > **2.Users** Job Group has been configured by default to run with the
out-of-the-box settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

- The **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group needs to be successfully executed prior to running
  this job group

    - For the **AD_ServiceAccounts** Job, the **.Active Directory Inventory** > **1-AD_Scan** Job
      needs to be configured to collect **servicePrincipalName** as a Custom Attribute

- For the **AD_WeakPassword** Job:

    - Requires the DSInternals PowerShell Module, which is a third-party package. See the
      [AD_WeakPasswords Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/solutions/activedirectory/users/ad_weakpasswords.md)
      topic for additional information.
    - The AD_WeakPasswords Job depends on a dictionary file. See the
      [PasswordSecurity: Dictionaries](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/datacollector/passwordsecurity/dictionaries.md)
      topic for additional information.

    :::info
    If this job is not to be used, disable the job to prevent execution when the
    job group is executed.
    :::


**Targeted Host(s)**

Only the **AD_WeakPasswords** Job requires a host list. The host list assignment has been configured
under the **2. Users** > **AD_WeakPasswords** > **Configure** > **Hosts** node. It is set to target
the **ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN** host list. This host list is a dynamic host list based on
the host inventory value in the **isDomainController** field in the Host Master Table.

**Connection Profile**

Only the **AD_WeakPasswords** Job requires a Connection Profile. It must be set directly on the
**AD_WeakPasswords** Job (through the Job Properties window) with Domain Administrator privileges.

:::note
The **AD_WeakPassword** Job can be executed with a least privilege credential. See the
[Active Directory Auditing Configuration](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/activedirectory/activedirectory/access.md)
topic for additional information.
:::


**Schedule Frequency**

The data analyzed by the **2.Users** Job Group jobs is collected by the **.Active Directory
Inventory** Job Group. Therefore, it is recommended to schedule these jobs to run after the
**.Active Directory Inventory** job group collection has completed. These jobs can be scheduled to
run as desired.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

Run the jobs in the **2.Users** Job Group together and in order by running the entire job group,
instead of the individual jobs.

:::tip
Remember, if the **AD_WeakPassword** Job is not to be executed, it can be disabled.
:::


**Analysis Configuration**

The **2.Users** Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations. Most of the
analysis tasks are preconfigured for this Job Group.

Some analysis tasks have customizable parameters:

- The **.Active Directory Inventory** Solution defines stale users. These parameters can be
  customized.

    - Customize within **.Active Directory Inventory** > **3-AD_Exceptions** Job analysis tasks

        :::note
        Changes to an exception’s definition will affect all jobs dependent upon that
        exception as well as all Access Information Center Exceptions reports.
        :::


**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Prerequisite: Ensure the **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group has been
successfully run.

**Step 2 –** For AD_WeakPassword Job: Run a host discovery query to discover domain controllers.

- The **AD_WeakPasswords** Job has been set to run against the following default dynamic host list:

    - ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN

    :::note
    Default dynamic host lists are populated from hosts in the Host Master Table that meet
    the host inventory criteria for the list. Ensure the appropriate host lists have been populated
    through host inventory results.
    :::


**Step 3 –** Set a Connection Profile on the job that runs the data collection.

**Step 4 –** Schedule the **2.Users** Job Group to run as desired after the prerequisite job has
completed.

**Step 5 –** Review the reports generated by the **2.Users** Job Group.
