# Redshift Solution

The Enterprise Auditor Redshift Solution Set is a comprehensive set of pre-configured audit jobs and
reports that provide visibility into various aspects of Redshift: Data Collection, Configuration,
and Sensitive Data.

The Redshift Solution requires a special Enterprise Auditor license. Additionally, the Sensitive
Data Discovery Add-On enables the solution to search Redshift and AWS content for sensitive data.

Supported Platforms

- Amazon AWS Redshift
- AWS Redshift Cluster

Requirements, Permissions, and Ports

See the
[Target Redshift Requirements, Permissions, and Ports](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/requirements/target/databaseredshift.md)
topic for additional information.

Sensitive Data Discovery Considerations

The Sensitive Data Discovery Add-On must be installed on the Enterprise Auditor Console server,
which enables Sensitive Data criteria for scans. If running Sensitive Data Discovery (SDD) scans, it
will be necessary to increase the minimum amount of RAM. Each thread requires a minimum of 2
additional GB of RAM per host. For example, if the job is configured to scan 8 hosts at a time ,
then an extra 16 GB of RAM are required (8x2=16).

By default, the job is configured to use 10 threads, which can be adjusted based on available
resources on the Enterprise Auditor server.

**NOTE:** The Sensitive Data Discovery Add-on installation package installs the appropriate JDK
(Java) version on the server. The JDK deployed is prepackaged and does not require any
configuration; it has been preconfigured to work with Enterprise Auditor and should never be
customized through Java. It will not conflict with other JDKs or Java Runtimes in the same
environment.

Location

The Redshift Solution requires a special Enterprise Auditor license. It can be installed from the
Enterprise Auditor Instant Job Wizard. Once it has been installed in the **Jobs** tree, navigate to
the solution: **Jobs** > **Databases** > **Redshift Solution**.

The 0.Collection Job Group discovers SQL instances on the target hosts, and collects the data. The
other job groups analyze the collected data and generate reports.

The Database Solution license includes all supported database platforms supported by Enterprise
Auditor. Additionally, the Sensitive Data Discovery Add-On enables the solution to search database
content for sensitive data.

## Redshift Job Group

The Enterprise Auditor Redshift  Solution Set is a set of preconfigured audit jobs and reports that
provides visibility into Redshift Sensitive Data.

![redshiftjobgrpoverview](/img/versioned_docs/accessanalyzer_11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/redshiftjobgrpoverview.webp)

The following job groups comprise the Redshift Job Group:

- [0.Collection Job Group](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/collection/overview.md)
  — Collects high level summary information from targeted Redshift Servers. Other jobs in the
  Redshift Solution Set use this information for further analysis and producing respective report.
  This Job Group is comprised of the following jobs(s)

    - [Redshift_Configuration Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/collection/redshift_configuration.md)
    - [Redshift_SensitiveDataScan Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/collection/redshift_sensitivedatascan.md)
    - [Redshift_TablePrivileges Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/collection/redshift_tableprivileges.md)

- [Configuration > Redshift_DatabaseSizing Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/redshift_databasesizing.md)
  — Provides insight into details about the Redshift environment and potential vulnerabilities
  relating to instance configuration settings.

- [Sensitive Data Job Group](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/sensitive_data/overview.md)
  — Provides insight into where sensitive data exists and who has access to it across all the
  targeted Redshift databases.This Job Group is comprised of the following job(s):

    - [Redshift_SensitiveData Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/sensitive_data/redshift_sensitivedata.md)
    - [Redshift_SensitiveDataPermissions Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/accessanalyzer/solutions/databases/redshift/sensitive_data/redshift_sensitivedatapermissions.md)
