---
description: >-
  Frequently asked questions about Netwrix Password Manager, covering
  encryption, authentication, licensing, upgrades, troubleshooting, and known
  issues.
keywords:
  - Netwrix Password Manager
  - FAQ
  - password manager
  - SSL
  - PRMService
  - Helpdesk portal
  - Self-Service portal
  - licensing
  - enrollment
products:
  - general
sidebar_label: FAQ Netwrix Password Manager
tags:
  - documentation-and-reference
title: "FAQ Netwrix Password Manager"
knowledge_article_id: kA00g000000H9dkCAC
---

# FAQ Netwrix Password Manager

> **IMPORTANT:** Netwrix Password Manager will be discontinued in October 2024, with no further updates or support available. For additional information, refer to the following article: FAQ: Netwrix Password Manager Discontinued.

### Q1: Are the verification questions/security answers encrypted?

A1: The verification questions are public, and they are stored in the plain text format. The secret answers are encrypted with the one-way MD5 hash function.

### Q2: When logging into the Password Manager Helpdesk Portal, is there a way to input the AD user name without adding the domain name as a prefix?

A2: Netwrix Password Manager Helpdesk Portal relies on Windows Authentication, which requires the domain name to be entered, not just the user name.

### Q3: Does the licensing for Password Manager include the Microsoft Windows Logon GINA Extension?

A3: The license for the Password Manager software includes the Windows Logon GINA extension.

### Q4: Does Password Manager support 2048 bit encryption on SSL?

A4: Yes, if your web browser and IIS server support it. The GINA extension uses the Microsoft Internet Explorer engine to communicate with the web server, so the support of 2048-bit encryption on SSL totally depends on the version of IE installed in the system.

### Q5: After applying a binding to the Password Manager site (or changing from http:// to https://), the shortcuts found in All Programs->Netwrix->Password Manager do not work.

A5: By design, any changes to the **Admin**, **Helpdesk** and **Self-Service** shortcuts are disabled. Delete the old shortcuts and manually create new ones.

### Q6: "This portal is temporarily unavailable, please contact your IT Helpdesk" error message comes up when trying to open the Self-Service Portal."

A6: This message indicates that all options on the **User Options** tab of the **Settings** in the **Administrative Portal** are disabled. To resolve this issue, enable these options as necessary.

### Q7: A user gets the following error message "Administrator restricted access to users of your domain" during any operation with the Self-Service portal.

A7: Go to the **Administrative Portal** -> **Roles** and make sure that the **Self-Service Access** is granted to 'Everyone'.

### Q8: Server CPU is running at 100% caused by the PRMService and web portals are non-operational.

A8: This is a known issue that was addressed in the latest Netwrix Password Manager version. Contact Netwrix Technical Support to get the latest product version here: [Open a Ticket](https://www.netwrix.com/tickets.html#/open-a-ticket).

### Q9: How do I upgrade Netwrix Password Manager to a newer version?

A9: To upgrade Netwrix Password Manager to a newer product version, simply run the installer. It will upgrade all system files automatically. Note that the installer only updates the default files and folders, and ignores files and folders added manually. If you have a non-standard configuration (for example, you have two Self-Service Portals with a separate folder for the second portal which was created manually), you will have to update the files in the non-default folder by copying them manually.

### Q10: How does Netwrix Password Manager handle expired accounts? Will the product reset or extend them?

A10: The product does not do anything to expired accounts. Netwrix Password Manager will simply display a message that an account has expired.

### Q11: When I enter the new license, the user counter is reset. Do I lose my previously counted users?

A11: Netwrix Password Manager license counts active users (per username). When users perform any operation (enroll, reset password, unlock account) via Password Manager, they are counted. Your users were counted during the enroll procedure. When you enter the new license, the counter is reset. The users will be counted again, if they perform any action, so neither the users' nor enroll information is lost.

### Q12: Can I save reports generated by Netwrix Password Manager locally on my computer?

A12: Starting from Netwrix Password Manager version 6.2.676, there is an option to save reports in CSV format. To do this, in **Help-Desk portal**, click the **Download report** button next to **Generate Report**.

### Q13: Is Netwrix Password Manager compliant with the PCI regulation?

A13: Yes, Netwrix Password Manager is PCI Compliant.

### Q14: Where can I find the version number?

A14: The version number can be found in two ways:
1. On the Details tab of the Properties dialog of the `PRMServcie.exe` file located Password Manager installation directory.  
2. On the **Updates** tab of **Settings** on the **Administrative portal**. Please note, the Current version field may be empty for older product versions. in this case, use the first method.

### Q15: Is there a way for Netwrix Password Manager to automatically de-enroll users that no longer exist? When an employee leaves, we disable the account and then delete it. Will we also need to manually delete the profile from Netwrix Password Manager?

A15: Starting from the version 6.2.774 of Netwrix Password Manager, there is a similar functionality - non-existing users are marked in the Help Desk portal as "Not found".

### Q16: After the Netwrix Password Manager client is installed, some of our users get a pop up asking to "Insert a Smart Card" when launching Microsoft Lync 2010 and/or Outlook 2010.

A16: It is a known issue of some versions of Password Manager Self-Service client. Contact Netwrix Technical Support to get the latest product version here: [Open a Ticket](https://www.netwrix.com/tickets.html#/open-a-ticket).

### Q17: Will changes to web-portal affect enrolled computers?

A17: Computers do not get enrolled, users do. Data is stored locally on the Password Manager server and is not affected by web-site properties and configurations. You can easily change URL/bindings, or set up redirects, etc.

### Q18: What about the Freeware Edition?

A18: Please note that the Freeware version of Netwrix Password Manager is no longer distributed and is now considered outdated and non-functional.
