---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 3.Computers Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 3.Computers Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 3.Computers Job Group

The **Active Directory** > **3.Computers** Job Group has been configured by default to run with the
default settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

The **.Active Directory Inventory** Job Group needs to be successfully executed prior to running
this job group.

**Target Host**

This job group does not collect data. No target host is required.

**Connection Profile**

This job group does not collect data. No specific Connection Profile is required.

**Schedule Frequency**

The data analyzed by the 3.Computers Job Group jobs is collected by the .Active Directory Inventory
Job Group. Therefore, it is recommended to schedule these jobs to run after the .Active Directory
Inventory job group collection has completed. These jobs can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

:::info
Run the jobs in the 3.Computers Job Group together and in order by running the
entire job group, instead of the individual jobs.
:::


**Analysis Configuration**

The 3.Computers Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations. Most of the
analysis tasks are preconfigured for this Job Group.

Some analysis tasks have customizable parameters:

- The **Active Directory** > **3.Computers** > **AD_StaleComputers** Job defines stale users. The
  parameters can be customized.

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Prerequisite: Successful execution of the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group.

**Step 2 –** Schedule the 3.Computers Job Group to run as desired after the prerequisite job has
completed.

**Step 3 –** Review the reports generated by the 3.Computers Job Group.
