---
title: "How secure is it just to use the digital signature? Can someone spoof a digital signature?"
description: "How secure is it just to use the digital signature? Can someone spoof a digital signature?"
sidebar_position: 30
---

# How secure is it just to use the digital signature? Can someone spoof a digital signature?

Digital Signature is signed by the application vendor and it is nearly impossible to associate
malicious content with a valid digital signature of a known application like Autodesk, Adob, etc.
However, we strongly suggest securing your environment with combo rules like **Signature** with
**File Info**. For more information on this topic please check this link
[More security with Combo Rules](/docs/endpointpolicymanager/components/endpointprivilegemanager/videolearningcenter/howtoandtechsupport/securitycomborules.md).

Certificates are generated by CA (Certification authority), such as Thawte, DigiCert, etc. Though it
is possible and valid to generate more than one certificate with the same Subject Name, all trusted
CAs are supposed to verify certificate requests and their origin and ensure that a cert request for
Adobe Inc., for instance, actually came from Adobe and not John Doe., Public.

Even if CA were to issue a certificate created for Adobe Inc. to a bad actor, Microsoft would remove
it from the trusted CA list.

Using Thumbprint (or Fingerprint) also gives an added benefit. It is a unique certificate identifie
that is not included in the certificate but computed when needed using algorithms such as SHA1 or
SHA256.

Thumbprint verifies a particular signature  dated for this year, versus an exact looking signature,
but dated for another timeframe.

Finally, please check this Microsoft Doc on how most application vendors associate digital
signatures with their installers or EXE files:
[Digital Signatures and Windows Installer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/digital-signatures-and-windows-installer).


