---
title: "Recommended Configurations for Entra ID Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for Entra ID Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for Entra ID Job Group

The Entra ID Solution has been configured to inherit down from the job group **Settings** node. The
host list must be assigned and the Connection Profile configured before job execution. Once these
are assigned to the job group, it can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

Running the .Entra ID Inventory Job Group provides essential data to the Entra ID Solution.

Running the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group is required to collect on-premises directory
syncing information. See the
[.Active Directory Inventory Solution](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/solutions/activedirectoryinventory/overview.md) topic for additional
information.

**Targeted Hosts**

The Entra ID Solution does not require a target host because the jobs use data collected from the
.Entra ID Inventory Job Group and the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group. However, Access
Analyzer jobs do not execute successfully without a host list assigned. Assign the host list under
the **Entra ID** > **Settings** > **Host Lists Assignment** node. Check the **Local host** box and
click **Save**.

**Connection Profile**

Since the Entra ID Solution is not collecting any data, a specific connection profile is not
necessary. Therefore, the default setting **Use the Default Profile** is sufficient for this
solution.

**Schedule Frequency**

Schedule the Entra ID Job Group to run on a preferred schedule.

**Optional Configuration**

The Entra ID Solution receives user and group membership information from the .Entra ID Inventory
Solution. Information received includes manager, email addresses, and direct membership. Customize
within the **.Entra ID Inventory** > **2-AAD_Exceptions** Job's Deeply Nested Groups and Large
Groups analysis tasks.

See the [.Entra ID Inventory Solution](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/solutions/entraidinventory/overview.md) topic for additional
information.

**Workflow**

The following is the recommended workflow:

**Step 1 –** Assign the Local host at the solution level as described above.

**Step 2 –** Run the .Entra ID Inventory Job Group. If on-premises directory syncing information is
desired, run the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group.

**Step 3 –** Schedule the solution to run as desired with consideration to the run schedules of the
solutions collecting data.

**Step 4 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
