---
title: "Email Service"
description: "Email Service"
sidebar_position: 40
---

# Email Service

The Email service maintains a queue of all email notification generated by the identity stores in
GroupID, and sends them one by one through the SMTP server configured for the respective identity
store.

When the SMTP server for an identity store is down, notifications stay in the queue, until they are
delivered when the server is up again. Successfully delivered emails are removed from the queue.

For more on the notification queue, see the
[Manage the Notification Queue](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/notification/queue.md)
topic.

What do you want to do?

- [View Email Service Details](#view-email-service-details)
- [Manage Email Service Settings](#manage-email-service-settings)

## View Email Service Details

1. In Admin Center, click **Applications** in the left pane.
2. On the **Applications** page, click the **Email Service** tab.  
   The tab displays the default Email service(s) hosted in native IIS. The number of services
   displayed on the tab depend on the number of Elasticsearch clusters in your environment, as each
   cluster has its own Email service. See the
   [Elasticsearch Clusters, Nodes, and GroupID](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/overview.md#elasticsearch-clusters-nodes-and-groupid)
   topic.  
   For details displayed on a service card, see the table in the
   [View Data Service Details](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/dataservice/manage.md#view-data-service-details)
   topic.

    You cannot create a new Email service or delete the existing one

## Manage Email Service Settings

You can manage the following settings for the Email service:

- [Change a Service’s Display Name](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/dataservice/manage.md#change-a-services-display-name)
- [Start or Stop a Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/dataservice/manage.md#start-or-stop-a-service)
- [View the Deployment Settings for a Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/dataservice/manage.md#view-the-deployment-settings-for-a-service)
- [Specify Log Settings for a Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/dataservice/manage.md#specify-log-settings-for-a-service)

**See Also**

- [GroupID Applications](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/applications/applications.md)
- [Services](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/overview.md)
