# Manually Configure Auditing in OneFS

Manual configuration for auditing is optional for newer versions as the Activity Agent can configure
the auditing automatically using the OneFS API. Follow the steps through the OneFS Storage
Administration Console.

**Step 1 –** Navigate to the **Cluster Management** tab, and select **Auditing**.

![settings](/img/product_docs/activitymonitor/config/dellpowerscale/settings.webp)

**Step 2 –** In the Settings section, check the Enable Protocol Access Auditing box.

**Step 3 –** In the Audited Zones section, add at least one zone to be audited. The **System** zone
is typically used. If the CIFS or NFS shares are accessible through different zones on the OneFS
cluster, include all relevant zones.

Ensure that OneFS collects only events you are interested in. By default, OneFS may monitor things
like directory reads, which can take up a large amount of space. Configuring the OneFS events that
need monitoring is not done through the Activity Monitor console. Configure OneFS event monitoring
using OneFS CLI with the isi audit modify command for each access zone. Enabling monitoring for only
what is needed for the environment will reduce the data load to the agent.

Activity Monitor monitors the following events: `close_file_modified`, `close_file_unmodified`,
`create_file`, `create_directory`, `delete_file`, `delete_directory`, `rename_file`,
`rename_directory`, `set_security_file`, `set_security_directory`, and `open_directory` (if you want
to monitor Directory List/Read events).

For each monitored access zone:

- Use isi audit settings view `isi --zone ZONENAME` to check current settings.
- Disable reporting of failure and syslog audit events with:

    isi audit settings modify --zone ZONENAME --clear-audit-failure --clear-syslog-audit-events

- Set the success audit events with:

    isi audit settings modify --zone ZONENAME
    --audit-success=close_file_modified,close_file_unmodified,create_file,create_directory,delete_file,delete_directory,rename_file,rename_directory,set_security_file,set_security_directory

![eventforwarding](/img/product_docs/activitymonitor/config/dellpowerscale/eventforwarding.webp)

**Step 4 –** In the Event Forwarding section, add the CEE Server URI value for the Windows or Linux
server hosting CEE. Use either of the following format:

http://[IP ADDRESS]:[PORT]/cee

http://[SERVER Name]:[PORT]/cee

**_RECOMMENDED:_** When deploying multiple Dell CEE instances at scale, it is recommended that an
accommodating agent must be configured with each CEE instance. If multiple CEE instances send events
to just one agent, it may create an overflow of data and overload the agent. Distributing the
activity stream into pairs will be the most efficient way of monitoring large data sets at scale.

**Step 5 –** Also in the Event Forwarding section, set the **Storage Cluster Name** value. It must
be an exact match to the name which is entered in the Activity Monitor for the **Monitored Host**
list.

This name is used as a ‘tag’ on all events coming through the CEE. This name must exactly match what
is in the Activity Monitor or it does not recognize the events.

**_RECOMMENDED:_** Use the CIFS DNS name for Dell OneFS.

**NOTE:** To use the Activity Monitor with Access Analyzer for Activity Auditing (FSAC) scans, the
name entered here must exactly match what is used for Access Analyzer as a target host.

If the Storage Cluster Name cannot be modified (for example, another third-party depends on it), you
need to set the Host Aliases parameter in the Activity Monitor Console:

- If the Storage Cluster Name is not empty, set the Host Aliases parameter to its value
- If the Storage Cluster Name is empty, set the Host Aliases to a semicolon-separated list of OneFS
  node names

Next, it is time to configure the monitoring agent on the Windows server to monitor the
Isilon/PowerScale device.
