---
title: "Email Service"
description: "Email Service"
sidebar_position: 30
---

# Email Service

The Email service maintains a queue of all email notification generated by the identity stores in
Directory Manager, and sends them one by one through the SMTP server configured for the respective
identity store.

When the SMTP server for an identity store is down, notifications stay in the queue, until they are
delivered when the server is up again. Successfully delivered emails are removed from the queue.

For more on the notification queue, see the
[Manage the Notification Queue](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/notification/queue.md) topic.

## View Email Service Details

Follow the steps to view Email service details.

Step 1 – In Admin Center, click **Applications** in the left pane.

Step 2 – On the **Applications** page, click the **Email Service** tab.  
The tab displays the default Email service(s) hosted in native IIS. The number of services displayed
on the tab depend on the number of nodes in all Elasticsearch clusters in your environment, as each
node has its own Email service. On each Directory Manager instance, notifications will be generated
for Directory Manager operations and will be queued in Notification queue. All the deployed services
on each Directory Manager instance will check notification queue every 100 second and will send 10
notifications in Notification queue for processing.

See the
[Elasticsearch Clusters, Nodes, and Directory Manager](overview.md#elasticsearch-clusters-nodes-and-directory-manager)
topic for additional information. For details displayed on a service card, see the table in the
[View Data Service Details](dataservice/manage.md#view-data-service-details) topic.

You cannot create a new Email service or delete the existing one.

## Manage Email Service Settings

You can manage the following settings for the Email service:

- [Change a Service’s Display Name](dataservice/manage.md#change-a-services-display-name)
- [Start or Stop a Service](dataservice/manage.md#start-or-stop-a-service)
- [View the Deployment Settings for a Service](dataservice/manage.md#view-the-deployment-settings-for-a-service)
- [Specify Log Settings for a Service](dataservice/manage.md#specify-log-settings-for-a-service)
