---
title: "FSAA Manual Certificate Configuration"
description: "FSAA Manual Certificate Configuration"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# FSAA Manual Certificate Configuration

To create and store the certificates needed to set up FSAA scans using manual certificate exchange,
use the `FSAACertificateManager.exe` tool. The `FSAACertificateManager.exe` tool is located in the
`StealthAUDIT\PrivateAssemblies\FILESYSTEMACCESS\Applet` directory. All commands in the tool are
case-sensitive.

Follow the steps to use the tool to create and store the required certificates.

:::note
In these steps, some commands need to be run on the Enterprise Auditor console and some on
the Proxy host. In the provided example commands:
:::


- All files that are generated by the Certificate Manager or copied to the Enterprise Auditor
  console are placed in the
  `%SAInstallDir%\PrivateAssemblies\FILESYSTEMACCESS\Applet\My Certificates` directory. This folder
  is created by the tool if it does not already exist.
- When operating on the proxy host, files are placed into the root of the **FSAA** folder

:::tip
Remember, all commands in the `FSAACertificateManager.exe` tool are case-sensitive.
:::


**Step 1 –** Create a Certificate Authority (CA). The CA is a self signed certificate that will be
used to sign the client and server certificates. On the Enterprise Auditor console, run the
following command:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -createCertificate -subjectDN CN=FSAA CA NEAConsole.my.domain.com -purpose CertificateAuthority -friendlyName FSAA_CA -outputPath ".\My Certificates" -name MyFSAACA
```

- Replace the Common Name (CN) in this example command (`FSAA CA NEAConsole.my.domain.com`) with a
  unique and descriptive name
- The output file is stored at the specified output path `.\My Certificates`

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully wrote certificate to .\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.pfx
```

**Step 2 –** Create a client certificate using the CA from the previous step. On the Enterprise
Auditor console, run the following command:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -createCertificate -issuer ".\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.pfx" -subjectDN CN=NEAConsole.my.domain.com -purpose ClientAuth -subjectAlternativeNames NEAConsole -friendlyName FSAA_Client_Auth -outputPath ".\My Certificates" -name MyFSAAClientCert
```

- Replace the CN (`NEAConsole.my.domain.com`) with the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of your
  Enterprise Auditor console
- Replace the alternate subject name (`NEAConsole`) with the short name for the Enterprise Auditor
  console
- The output file is stored at the specified output path `.\My Certificates`

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully wrote certificate to .\My Certificates\MyFSAAClientCert.pfx
```

**Step 3 –** Store the CA in an FSAA managed certificate store. As the user that runs the Enterprise
Auditor console, run the following command on the Enterprise Auditor console:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -storeCertificate -certificate ".\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.pfx" -store CertificateAuthority -location CurrentUser
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully added FSAA_CA to CertificateAuthority
```

**Step 4 –** Store the client certificate in an FSAA managed certificates store. As the user that
runs the Enterprise Auditor console, run the following command on the Enterprise Auditor console:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -storeCertificate -certificate ".\My Certificates\MyFSAAClientCert.pfx" -store Client -location CurrentUser
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully added FSAA_Client_Auth to Client
```

**Step 5 –** Convert the CA from a PFX file to a CER file. On the Enterprise Auditor console, run
the following command:

:::note
This conversion to a CER file is necessary so that the private key of the CA is not
shared.
:::


```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -createCER -certificate ".\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.pfx" -outputPath ".\My Certificates" -name MyFSAACA
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully wrote CER certificate to .\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.cer
```

**Step 6 –** Copy `FSAACertficateManager.exe` and the CA CER file (`.\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.cer`)
to the proxy host that will be running `FSAAAppletServer.exe`. These files must be copied to the
same directory.

:::note
These copied files will be deleted from the destination directory later in Step 12.
:::


**Step 7 –** Generate the server certificate signing request and key on the Proxy host. On the proxy
host, run the following command out of the FSAA folder where the `FSAACertificateManager.exe` was
copied to:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -createCertificateSigningRequest -subjectDN CN=proxy01.my.domain.com -subjectAlternativeNames Proxy01 -outputPath . -name Proxy01
```

- Replace the CN (`proxy01.my.domain.com`) with the FQDN of the proxy host
- Replace the alternate subject name (`proxy01`) with the short name for the proxy host
- The generated certificate signing request and key are stored in the same directory as
  `FSAACertificateManager.exe` on the proxy host

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully wrote certificate signing request to .\Proxy01.csr
Successfully wrote certificate key to .\Proxy01.key
```

**Step 8 –** Store the CA on the proxy host in an FSAA managed certificate store. As the user that
runs the proxy scanner (`FSAAAppletServer.exe`), run the following command on the proxy host:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -storeCertificate -certificate .\MyFSAACA.cer -store CertificateAuthority -location CurrentUser
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully added FSAA_CA to CertificateAuthority
```

**Step 9 –** Complete the server certificate signing request on the Enterprise Auditor console. Copy
the CSR file from the proxy host to the **My Certificates** directory on the Enterprise Auditor
console (where the original CA PFX file is located), then run the following command on the
Enterprise Auditor console:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -completeCertificateSigningRequest -certificateSigningRequest ".\My Certificates\Proxy01.csr" -purpose ServerAuth -issuer ".\My Certificates\MyFSAACA.pfx" -days 365 -outputPath ".\My Certificates" -name Proxy01
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully completed certificate signing request to .\My Certificates\Proxy01.cer
```

**Step 10 –** Store the server certificate on the proxy host in an FSAA managed certificate store.
Copy the Proxy CER file back to the proxy host from the Enterprise Auditor console. Then, as the
user that runs the proxy scanner (`FSAAAppletServer.exe`), run the following command on the proxy
host:

```
.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -storeCertificate -certificate .\Proxy01.cer -key .\Proxy01.key -friendlyName FSAA_Server_Auth -store Server -location CurrentUser
```

The following message is returned when the command completes successfully:

```
Successfully added FSAA_Server_Auth to Server
```

**Step 11 –** Repeat Steps 6-10 for each proxy host.

**Step 12 –** Delete all the PFX, CER, and Key files that were generated or copied in the above
steps from the output locations.

All of the required FSAA certificates have been stored in the FSAA managed certificate stores. The
FSAA queries need to be configured to use the **Manual** certificate exchange option. This option
can be found under Applet Settings in the FSAA Data Collector Wizard. See the
[FSAA: Applet Settings](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/datacollector/fsaa/appletsettings.md)
topic for additional information.

For additional information on how to use the `FSAACertificateManager.exe` tool, run the
`.\FSAACertificateManager.exe -help` command.
