---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 5. Public Folders Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 5. Public Folders Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 5. Public Folders Job Group

**Dependencies**

This job group requires the following items to be installed and configured on the Enterprise Auditor
Console:

- Microsoft MAPI CDO installed
- Enterprise Auditor MAPI CDO installed
- **Settings** > **Exchange** node configured

The following job groups need to be successfully run:

- .Active Directory Inventory Job Group
- .Entra ID Inventory Job Group
- Exchange > 1. HUB Metrics Job Group (Optional)

    - Provides data on public folder metrics for on-premises Exchange environments and the last time
      a distribution list received mail

**Targeted Hosts**

The Content, Growth and Size, and Permissions job groups use Remote PowerShell through the
ExchangePS Data Collector and the host list should be set to the following:

- Local Host

The **Ownership** > **Collection** job group needs to be set to run against the appropriate host
list:

- For Exchange 2010 or 2013 – Assign a single host from the 2010/2013 environment

    - This can be assigned at the Collection job group level if the host has been added to a custom
      host list
    - This can be assigned at the **Collection** > **PF_FolderOwnership** job level by adding the
      individual host at the **Configure** > **Hosts** node

    :::note
    The target host should be set to an on-premises Exchange server. Exchange Online is
    not support.
    :::


**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile must be set directly on the collection jobs. See the
[Exchange PowerShell Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/exchange/support/powershell.md)
topic for credential requirements and assign the Connection Profile to the following jobs:

- **Content** > **Collection** > **PF_ContentScans** Job
- **Growth and Size** > **Collection** > **PF_FolderScans** Job
- **Permissions** > **Collection** > **PF_EntitlementScans** Job

See the
[MAPI-Based Data Collector Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/exchange/support/mapi.md)
topic for credential requirements and assign the Connection Profile to the following job:

- **Ownership** > **Collection** > **PF_FolderOwnership** Job

See the
[Connection](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/settings/connection/overview.md)
topic for additional information.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group has been designed to run weekly or bi-weekly to collect information about public
folders in the environment. This job group may be run more frequently depending on the size of the
public folders database and public folder count.

:::info
Run this job group on Fridays at 8:00 PM.
:::


**History Retention**

History retention should not be enabled on this job group. History is kept through analysis tasks.
Modify the following analysis task to customize the amount of history which is kept:

| Job Name      | Analysis Task Name    | Default History |
| ------------- | --------------------- | --------------- |
| PF_FolderSize | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 3 Months        |

**Query Configuration**

The 5. Public Folders job group is designed to be run with the default query configurations.
However, the following queries can be modified:

- **Content** > **Collection** > **PF_ContentScans** Job – **PF Contents** Query
- **Growth and Size** > **Collection** > **PF_FolderScans** Job – **PF Size & Msg Counts** Query
- **Ownership** > **Collection** > **PF_FolderOwnership** Job – **Probable Ownership** Query
- **Ownership** > **Collection** > **PF_FolderOwnership** Job – **Assigned Ownership** Query
- **Permissions** > **Collection** > **PF_EntitlementScans** Job – **Public Folder Permissions**
  Query

No other queries should be modified.

**Analysis Configuration**

The 5. Public Folders job group should be run with the default analysis configurations.

:::warning
Most of these analysis tasks are preconfigured and should never be modified or
deselected. There are some that are deselected by default, as they are for troubleshooting purposes.
:::


The following analysis tasks should not be deselected, but their parameters can be modified:

- **Growth and Size** > **PF_FolderSize** Job – **02.SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Set the host on the **Ownership** > **Collection** job group.

**Step 2 –** Set a Connection Profile on the jobs that run data collection.

**Step 3 –** Schedule the 5. Public Folders job group to run weekly, biweekly, or as desired.

**Step 4 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
