---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 4.Group Policy Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 4.Group Policy Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 4.Group Policy Job Group

The **Active Directory** > **4.Group Policy** Job Group has been configured to run with the default
settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

This job group does not have dependencies.

**Targeted Hosts**

The AD_GroupPolicy Job has been configured to inherit its host from the **4.Group Policy** >
**Settings** > **Host List Assignment** node. It is set to target the **Default domain controller**
host list, which is the domain in which the Enterprise Auditor Console server resides.

The host list assignment for the **AD_CPassword** and **AD_PasswordPolicies** jobs have been
configured at the job’s > **Configure** > **Hosts** node. They are set to run against the **ONE
DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN** host list.

The **Default domain controller** and **ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN** host lists are dynamic
host lists based on the host inventory value in the **isDomainController** field in the Host Master
Table.

**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile must be set directly on the collection jobs with Domain Administrator
privileges.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

:::info
Run the jobs in the 4.Group Policy Job Group together and in order by running the
entire job group, instead of the individual jobs. However, these jobs can be run independently, with
the exception of the AD_OverlappingGPOs Job, which is dependent upon the AD_GroupPolicy Job for data
collection.
:::


**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Run a host discovery query to discover domain controllers.

**Step 2 –** Set a Connection Profile on the jobs that run data collection.

**Step 3 –** Schedule the 4.Group Policy Job Group to run as desired.

**Step 4 –** Review the reports generated by the 4.Group Policy Job Group.
