---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the .Active Directory Inventory Solution"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the .Active Directory Inventory Solution"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the .Active Directory Inventory Solution

The .Active Directory Inventory Solution has been configured by default to run with the
out-of-the-box settings, but some settings are optional for configuration. It can be run directly or
scheduled.

**Dependencies**

This job group does not have dependencies.

**Targeted Hosts**

The host list assignment has been configured under the **.Active Directory Inventory** >
**Settings** > **Host List Assignment** node. It is set to target the Default domain controller host
list, which is the domain in which the Access Analyzer Console server resides.

If targeting multiple domains, change the Host List Assignment to the **ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER
DOMAIN** host list.

The Default domain controller host list and ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN host list are dynamic
host lists based on the host inventory value in the isDomainController field in the Host Master
Table.

**Connection Profile**

The Connection Profile has been configured under the **.Active Directory Inventory** >
**Settings** > **Connection** node. It is set to Use the Default Profile, as configured at the
global settings level. Ensure the assigned Connection Profile has the necessary permissions on all
targeted domains.

If targeting multiple domains, ensure the assigned Connection Profile has the necessary permissions
on all targeted domains.

**History Retention**

Not supported and should be turned off

**Multi-Console Support**

Not supported

**Schedule Frequency**

:::info
Schedule the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group to run once a day.
:::


If there are frequent AD changes within the target environment, then it can be executed more often.
It is best to rerun it anytime AD changes might have occurred.

**Run at the Solution Level**

The jobs in the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group should be run together and in order by running
the entire solution, instead of the individual jobs.

**Query Configuration**

The solution is best run with the default query configuration. However, a possible modification
might be to include configurations of the scan options or additional custom attributes within the
[1-AD_Scan Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/solutions/activedirectoryinventory/1-ad_scan.md).

**Analysis Configuration**

The solution is best run with the default analysis configuration. However, possible modifications
might be to:

- Enable notification analysis tasks within the [2-AD_Changes Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/solutions/activedirectoryinventory/2-ad_changes.md)
- Customize exception analysis parameters within the [3-AD_Exceptions Job](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/solutions/activedirectoryinventory/3-ad_exceptions.md)

**Workflow**

The .Active Directory Inventory Job Group has been set to run against the following default dynamic
host list:

- Default domain controller

Default dynamic host lists are populated from hosts in the Host Master Table that meet the host
inventory criteria for the list. Ensure the appropriate host lists have been populated through host
inventory results.

**Step 1 –** (Optional) Run a host discovery query to discover domain controllers. This is needed
when targeting multiple domains.

**Step 2 –** Set a Connection Profile.

**Step 3 –** chedule the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group to run as desired.

**Step 4 –** Review the reports generated by the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group.
