---
title: "Managed By Life Cycle Schedule"
description: "Managed By Life Cycle Schedule"
sidebar_position: 70
---

# Managed By Life Cycle Schedule

The Managed By Life Cycle schedule updates the temporary additional owners for groups and temporary
additional managers for users in an identity store. It performs the following functions:

- Group owners and users with the ‘Manage any Group’ permission in the identity store can set a
  start and end date to:

    - Add an object as a temporary additional owner of a group
    - Remove an additional owner for a temporary period

    The Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds and removes an object as a group’s temporary additional
    owner on the specified dates.

- User managers and users with the ‘Manage any Profile’ permission in the identity store can set a
  start and end date to:

    - Add an object (user or contact) as a temporary additional manager of a user
    - Remove an additional manager for a temporary period

    The Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds and removes an object as the user’s temporary additional
    manager on the specified dates.

Let’s assume that the Managed By Life Cycle schedule is scheduled to run once a week, say Mondays.
If an object is to be added as a group’s temporary additional owner for three days - Wednesday till
Friday, it will not be added. This happens because the Managed By Life Cycle schedule did not run on
the specific days for temporary ownership update. Make sure the schedule is set to run at a
frequency that meets your temporary ownership requirements.

GroupID generates notifications when the Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds or removes temporary
additional owners/managers. See the
[Manage Managed by Life Cycle Notifications](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/identitystore/configure/smtpserver.md#manage-managed-by-life-cycle-notifications)
topic.

What do you want to do?

- [Create a Managed By Life Cycle Schedule](#create-a-managed-by-life-cycle-schedule)

## Create a Managed By Life Cycle Schedule

1. In Admin Center, click **Identity Stores** in the left pane.
2. On the **Identity Stores** page, click the ellipsis button for an identity store and select
   **Edit**.
3. Click **Schedules** under **Settings** in the left pane.
4. On the **Schedules** page, click **Add Schedule** and select **Managed By Life Cycle Job**. The
   **Create  Schedule** page is displayed.
5. In the **Schedule Name** box, enter a name for the schedule.
6. The **Name Preview** box displays the schedule name prefixed with _ManagedByLifeCycle___; the
   schedule is displayed with this name in email notifications.
7. Select a GroupID portal URL in the **Portal URL** drop-down list to include it in notifications
   generated by the schedule. Users are redirected to this portal to perform any necessary action.
8. In the **Scheduler Service Name** drop-down list, select a Scheduler service that would be
   responsible for triggering this schedule. The number of services displayed in the list depend on
   the number of Elasticsearch clusters in the environment, as each cluster has its own Scheduler
   service. See the
   [Scheduler Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/schedulerservice.md)
   topic.
9. You can specify containers as targets for the schedule. The schedule will process all groups in
   the selected containers and sub-containers. To specific containers as target, see step 9 in the
   [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
   topic.
10. Click **Add Triggers** in the **Triggers** area to specify a triggering criterion for the
    schedule, that, when met, starts the execution of the schedule. Follow step 11 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic to manage triggers.
11. Click **Add Authentication** in the **Authentication** area to specify an account for running
    the schedule in the identity store. Follow step 12 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic for details.
12. On the **Create Schedule** page, click **Create Schedule**.
13. On the **Schedules** page, click **Save**.  
     The schedule is displayed under **Managed By Life Cycle**. See the
    [View the Schedules in an Identity Store ](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/manage.md#view-the-schedules-in-an-identity-store)
    topic for more info.

See Also

- [Schedules](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/overview.md)
