---
title: "Membership Life Cycle Schedule"
description: "Membership Life Cycle Schedule"
sidebar_position: 80
---

# Membership Life Cycle Schedule

The Membership Life Cycle schedule updates the temporary membership of groups in an identity store.
It performs the following functions:

- Group owners (primary owner, additional owners, and Exchange additional owners) can set a start
  and end date to:

    - Add an object as a temporary member of a group
    - Remove a member for a temporary period from group membership

    The Membership Life Cycle schedule temporarily adds and removes an object from group membership
    on the specified dates.

- Managers and peers can join and leave a group temporarily on behalf of other users. When the
  Membership Life Cycle schedule runs, it adds and removes those users from group membership on the
  specified dates.
- The Membership Life Cycle schedule executes the Membership Life Cycle policy for the identity
  store. See the
  [Manage Membership Life Cycle Policies](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/identitystore/configure/membershiplifecycle.md)
  topic.
- The schedule also removes members when group owners inactivate them during group attestation. See
  the
  [Enable Group Attestation](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/identitystore/configure/grouplifecycle.md#enable-group-attestation)
  topic.

Let’s assume that the Membership Life Cycle schedule is scheduled to run once a week, say Mondays.
If an object is to be added to group membership for three days - Wednesday till Friday, it will not
be added. This happens because the Membership Life Cycle schedule did not run on the specific days
for temporary membership update. Make sure that the schedule is set to run at a frequency that meets
your temporary membership requirements.

GroupID generates notifications when the Membership Life Cycle schedule adds or removes users from
group membership. See the
[Manage Membership Life Cycle Notifications](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/identitystore/configure/smtpserver.md#manage-membership-life-cycle-notifications)
topic.

What do you want to do?

- [Create a Membership Life Cycle Schedule](#create-a-membership-life-cycle-schedule)

## Create a Membership Life Cycle Schedule

1. In Admin Center, click **Identity Stores** in the left pane.
2. On the **Identity Stores** page, click the ellipsis button for an identity store and select
   **Edit**.
3. Click **Schedules** under **Settings** in the left pane.
4. On the **Schedules** page, click **Add Schedule** and select **Membership Life Cycle Job**. The
   **Create Schedule** page is displayed.
5. In the **Schedule Name** box, enter a name for the schedule.
6. The **Name Preview** box displays the schedule name prefixed with _MembershipLifeCycle__; the
   schedule is displayed with this name in email notifications.
7. Select a GroupID portal URL in the **Portal URL** drop-down list to include it in notifications
   generated by the schedule. Users are redirected to this portal to perform any necessary action.
8. In the **Scheduler Service Name** drop-down list, select a Scheduler service that would be
   responsible for triggering this schedule. The number of services displayed in the list depend on
   the number of Elasticsearch clusters in the environment, as each cluster has its own Scheduler
   service. See the
   [Scheduler Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/schedulerservice.md)
   topic.
9. You can specify containers as targets for the schedule. The schedule will process all groups in
   these containers and their sub-containers. To specific containers as target, follow step 9 in the
   [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
   topic.

    NOTE: Membership Lifecycle policies are not applied to OUs specified here. Target OUs and groups
    are set in the respective policy.

10. Click **Add Triggers** in the **Triggers** area to specify a triggering criterion for the
    schedule, that, when met, starts the execution of the schedule. Follow step 11 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic to add triggers.
11. Click **Add Authentication** in the **Authentication** area to specify an account for running
    the schedule in the identity store. Follow step 12 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic for details.
12. On the **Create Schedule** page, click **Create Schedule**.
13. On the **Schedules** page, click **Save**.  
    The schedule is displayed under **Membership Life Cycle**. See the
    [View the Schedules in an Identity Store ](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/manage.md#view-the-schedules-in-an-identity-store)
    topic for more info.

See Also

- [Schedules](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/overview.md)
