---
title: "Orphan Group Update Schedule"
description: "Orphan Group Update Schedule"
sidebar_position: 90
---

# Orphan Group Update Schedule

An orphan group is one without a primary owner.

An Orphan Group Update schedule is responsible for assigning a primary owner to orphan groups. For
this, the orphan group must have at least one additional owner, since the schedule promotes a
group’s additional owner as its primary owner.

When an Orphan Group Update schedule runs, it promotes the first additional owner in the additional
owners’ list (be it a user, contact, or security group) as the primary owner and a notification is
sent to the promoted owner. Note the following:

- A temporary additional owner is not promoted as the primary owner. When such an owner is the first
  in the list, the schedule skips it and moves to the next additional owner in the list.
- When a security group is promoted as the primary owner, a notification is sent to all group
  members.
- When a mail-enabled user is promoted as the primary owner, the schedule also adds him or her as
  the group’s Exchange additional owner.
- When a user is promoted as the primary owner of more than one group, a single notification is sent
  to him or her, containing details of the groups added to his or her ownership.

The promotion of an additional owner to primary owner may violate the Group Owners policy for the
minimum number of additional owners required. A notification is sent to the promoted owner to add an
additional owner to comply with the policy. See the
[Group Owners Policy](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/securityrole/policy/groupowners.md)
topic.

With history tracking enabled, history is logged at the group level and at the promoted owner’s
level. See the
[Configure History Tracking](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/identitystore/configure/historytracking.md)
topic.

What do you want to do?

- [Create an Orphan Group Update Schedule](#create-an-orphan-group-update-schedule)

## Create an Orphan Group Update Schedule

1. In Admin Center, click **Identity Stores** in the left pane.
2. On the **Identity Stores** page, click the ellipsis button for an identity store and select
   **Edit**.
3. Click **Schedules** under **Settings** in the left pane.
4. On the **Schedules** page, click **Add Schedule** and select **Orphan Group Update Job**. The
   **Create Schedule** page is displayed.
5. In the **Schedule Name** box, enter a name for the schedule.
6. The **Name Preview** box displays the schedule name prefixed with _OrphanGroupUpdater__; the
   schedule is displayed with this name in email notifications.
7. Select a GroupID portal URL in the **Portal URL** drop-down list to include it in notifications
   generated by the schedule. Users are redirected to this portal to perform any necessary action.
8. In the **Scheduler Service Name** drop-down list, select a Scheduler service that would be
   responsible for triggering this schedule. The number of services displayed in the list depend on
   the number of Elasticsearch clusters in the environment, as each cluster has its own Scheduler
   service. See the
   [Scheduler Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/service/schedulerservice.md)
   topic.
9. You can specify containers as targets for the schedule. The schedule will process all groups in
   these containers and their sub-containers. To specific containers as target, follow step 9 in the
   [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
   topic.
10. Click **Add Triggers** in the **Triggers** area to specify a triggering criterion for the
    schedule, that, when met, starts the execution of the schedule. Follow step 11 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic to add triggers.
11. Click **Add Authentication** in the **Authentication** area to specify an account for running
    the schedule in the identity store. See step 12 in the
    [Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
    topic for details.
12. On the **Create Schedule** page, click **Create Schedule**.
13. On the **Schedules** page, click **Save**.  
    The schedule is displayed under **Orphan Group Update**. See the
    [View the Schedules in an Identity Store ](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/manage.md#view-the-schedules-in-an-identity-store)
    topic for more info.

See Also

- [Schedules](/docs/directorymanager/11.0/signin/schedule/overview.md)
