---
title: "Managed By Life Cycle Schedule"
description: "Managed By Life Cycle Schedule"
sidebar_position: 70
---

# Managed By Life Cycle Schedule

The Managed By Life Cycle schedule updates the temporary additional owners for groups and temporary
additional managers for users in an identity store. It performs the following functions:

- Group owners and users with the ‘Manage any Group’ permission in the identity store can set a
  start and end date to:

    - Add an object as a temporary additional owner of a group
    - Remove an additional owner for a temporary period

    The Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds and removes an object as a group’s temporary additional
    owner on the specified dates.

- User managers and users with the ‘Manage any Profile’ permission in the identity store can set a
  start and end date to:

    - Add an object (user or contact) as a temporary additional manager of a user
    - Remove an additional manager for a temporary period

    The Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds and removes an object as the user’s temporary additional
    manager on the specified dates.

Let’s assume that the Managed By Life Cycle schedule is scheduled to run once a week, say Mondays.
If an object is to be added as a group’s temporary additional owner for three days - Wednesday till
Friday, it will not be added. This happens because the Managed By Life Cycle schedule did not run on
the specific days for temporary ownership update. Make sure the schedule is set to run at a
frequency that meets your temporary ownership requirements.

Directory Manager generates notifications when the Managed By Life Cycle schedule adds or removes
temporary additional owners/managers. See the
[Manage Managed by Life Cycle Notifications](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/identitystore/configure/smtpserver.md#manage-managed-by-life-cycle-notifications)
topic for additional information.

## Create a Managed By Life Cycle Schedule

Follow the steps to create a Managed by Life Cycle Schedule.

Step 1 – In Admin Center, click **Identity Stores** in the left pane.

Step 2 – On the **Identity Stores** page, click the ellipsis button for an identity store and select
**Edit**.

Step 3 – Click **Schedules** under Settings in the left pane.

Step 4 – On the Schedules page, click **Add Schedule** and select **Managed By Life Cycle Job**. The
Create  Schedule page is displayed.

Step 5 – In the Schedule Name box, enter a name for the schedule.

Step 6 – The Name Preview box displays the schedule name prefixed with \_ManagedByLifeCycle\_\_\_;
the schedule is displayed with this name in email notifications.

Step 7 – Select a Directory Manager portal URL in the Portal URL drop-down list to include it in
notifications generated by the schedule. Users are redirected to this portal to perform any
necessary action.

Step 8 – In the Scheduler Service Name drop-down list, select a Scheduler service that would be
responsible for triggering this schedule. The number of services displayed in the list depend on the
number of nodes in all Elasticsearch clusters in the environment, as each node has its own Scheduler
service. See the [Scheduler Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/service/schedulerservice.md) topic for additional
information.

Step 9 – You can specify containers as targets for the schedule. The schedule will process all
groups in the selected containers and sub-containers. To specific containers as target, see step 9
in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic.

Step 10 – Click **Add Triggers** in the Triggers area to specify a triggering criterion for the
schedule, that, when met, starts the execution of the schedule. Follow step 11 in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic to manage triggers.

Step 11 – Click **Add Authentication** in the Authentication area to specify an account for running
the schedule in the identity store. Follow step 12 in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic for for additional information.

:::important Password Re-insertion Required
Due to security enhancements, when editing a schedule, you must re-enter the account password in the Authentication section, even if you are not changing the authentication credentials. This is a required security measure to ensure password field sanitization across the product.
:::

Step 12 – On the Create Schedule page, click **Create Schedule**.

Step 13 – On the Schedules page, click **Save**.
 The schedule is displayed under Managed By Life Cycle. See the
[View the Schedules in an Identity Store ](manage.md#view-the-schedules-in-an-identity-store) topic
for additional information.
