---
title: "Membership Life Cycle Schedule"
description: "Membership Life Cycle Schedule"
sidebar_position: 80
---

# Membership Life Cycle Schedule

The Membership Life Cycle schedule updates the temporary membership of groups in an identity store.
It performs the following functions:

- Group owners (primary owner, additional owners, and Exchange additional owners) can set a start
  and end date to:

    - Add an object as a temporary member of a group
    - Remove a member for a temporary period from group membership

    The Membership Life Cycle schedule temporarily adds and removes an object from group membership
    on the specified dates.

- Managers and peers can join and leave a group temporarily on behalf of other users. When the
  Membership Life Cycle schedule runs, it adds and removes those users from group membership on the
  specified dates.
- The Membership Life Cycle schedule executes the Membership Life Cycle policy for the identity
  store. See the
  [Manage Membership Life Cycle Policies](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/identitystore/configure/membershiplifecycle.md)
  topic.
- The schedule also removes members when group owners inactivate them during group attestation. See
  the
  [Enable Group Attestation](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/identitystore/configure/grouplifecycle.md#enable-group-attestation)
  topic.

Let’s assume that the Membership Life Cycle schedule is scheduled to run once a week, say Mondays.
If an object is to be added to group membership for three days - Wednesday till Friday, it will not
be added. This happens because the Membership Life Cycle schedule did not run on the specific days
for temporary membership update. Make sure that the schedule is set to run at a frequency that meets
your temporary membership requirements.

Directory Manager generates notifications when the Membership Life Cycle schedule adds or removes
users from group membership. See the
[Manage Membership Life Cycle Notifications](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/identitystore/configure/smtpserver.md#manage-membership-life-cycle-notifications)
topic.

## Create a Membership Life Cycle Schedule

Follow the steps to create a Membership Life Cycle Schedule.

Step 1 – In Admin Center, click **Identity Stores** in the left pane.

Step 2 – On the Identity Stores page, click the ellipsis button for an identity store and select
**Edit**.

Step 3 – Click **Schedules** under Settings in the left pane.

Step 4 – On the Schedules page, click **Add Schedule** and select **Membership Life Cycle Job**. The
Create Schedule page is displayed.

Step 5 – In the Schedule Name box, enter a name for the schedule.

Step 6 – The Name Preview box displays the schedule name prefixed with \_MembershipLifeCycle\_\_;
the schedule is displayed with this name in email notifications.

Step 7 – Select a Directory Manager portal URL in the Portal URL drop-down list to include it in
notifications generated by the schedule. Users are redirected to this portal to perform any
necessary action.

Step 8 – In the Scheduler Service Name drop-down list, select a Scheduler service that would be
responsible for triggering this schedule. The number of services displayed in the list depend on the
number of nodes in all Elasticsearch clusters in the environment, as each node has its own Scheduler
service. See the [Scheduler Service](/docs/directorymanager/11.1/admincenter/service/schedulerservice.md) topic for additional
information.

Please note the following while selecting a Scheduler service:

- The Scheduler service for the Directory Manager instance on which you are creating the schedule is
  selected by default. However, you can select the Scheduler service of another instance as well.

- The Scheduler service can be changed even after creating the schedule. Upon the next run, the
  schedule will be triggered by the newly-selected Scheduler service.

- If the selected Scheduler service fails to trigger the schedule, then no other Scheduler service
  can be selected automatically.

- If a schedule is run manually on the Admin Center, then the Scheduler service of that instance
  will be used.

Step 9 – You can specify containers as targets for the schedule. The schedule will process all
groups in these containers and their sub-containers. To specific containers as target, follow step 9
in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic for additional information.

:::note
Membership Lifecycle policies are not applied to OUs specified here. Target OUs and groups are
set in the respective policy.
:::


Step 10 – Click **Add Triggers** in the Triggers area to specify a triggering criterion for the
schedule, that, when met, starts the execution of the schedule. Follow step 11 in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic to add triggers.

Step 11 – Click **Add Authentication** in the Authentication area to specify an account for running
the schedule in the identity store. Follow step 12 in the
[Create a Group Usage Service Schedule](groupusageservice.md#create-a-group-usage-service-schedule)
topic for additional information.

:::important Password Re-insertion Required
Due to security enhancements, when editing a schedule, you must re-enter the account password in the Authentication section, even if you are not changing the authentication credentials. This is a required security measure to ensure password field sanitization across the product.
:::

Step 12 – On the Create Schedule page, click **Create Schedule**.

Step 13 – On the Schedules page, click **Save**.
The schedule is displayed under **Membership Life Cycle**. See the
[View the Schedules in an Identity Store ](manage.md#view-the-schedules-in-an-identity-store) topic
for additional information.
