---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 2. CAS Metrics Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 2. CAS Metrics Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 2. CAS Metrics Job Group

**Dependencies**

The following job groups need to be successfully run:

- .Active Directory Inventory Job Group
- .Entra ID Inventory Job Group

**Targeted Hosts**

The 0. Collection Job Group has been set to run against the following default dynamic host list:

- Exchange CAS Servers

The EX_ASPolicies Job has been set to run against the following default dynamic host list:

- Exchange MB Servers

:::note
Default dynamic host lists are populated from hosts in the Host Master Table which meet
the host inventory criteria for the list. Ensure the appropriate host lists have been populated
through host inventory results.
:::


:::info
Modify hosts lists only in the 0. Collection Job Group or EX_ASPolicies Job.
:::


**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile must be set directly on the EX_IISLogs Job and the EX_ASPolicies Job.

See the
[Exchange Remote Connections Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/exchange/support/remoteconnections.md)
topic for the EX_IISLogs Job required permissions. See the
[Exchange PowerShell Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/requirements/exchange/support/powershell.md)
topic for the EX_ASPolicies Job requirements.

See the
[Connection](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/settings/connection/overview.md)
topic for additional information.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group has been designed to run daily one hour after the 1.HUB Metrics Job Group to process
and collect the previous day’s message tracking logs.

:::info
Run this Job Group at 2:00 AM.
:::


**History Retention**

History retention should not be enabled on this job group. History is kept through analysis tasks.
Modify the following analysis tasks to customize the amount of history which is kept.

| Job Name      | Analysis Task Name    | Default History |
| ------------- | --------------------- | --------------- |
| EX_ActiveSync | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |
| EX_RPCTraffic | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |
| EX_OWATraffic | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |

**Query Configuration**

The 2. CAS Metrics Job Group is designed to be run with the default query configurations. However,
the following queries can be modified:

- **0. Collection** > **EX_IISLogs** Job – **IIS Logs** Query
- **EX_ASPolicies** Job – **Exchange Settings** Query

No other queries should be modified.

**Analysis Configuration**

The 2. CAS Metrics Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations.

:::warning
Most of these analysis tasks are preconfigured and should not be modified or
deselected. There are some that are deselected by default, as they are for troubleshooting purposes.
:::


The following analysis tasks should not be deselected, but their parameters can be modified:

- **ActiveSync** > **EX_ActiveSync** Job – **07. SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task
- **Outlook Anywhere** > **EX_RPCTraffic** Job – **05. SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task
- **Outlook Web Access** > **OWATraffic** Job – **05. SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Set a Connection Profile on the jobs which run data collection.

**Step 2 –** Ensure the prerequisite **1. HUB Metrics** job group is successfully executed.

**Step 3 –** Schedule the **2. CAS Metrics** job group to run daily one hour after running the 1.
HUB Metrics job group.

:::info
Run Job group at 2:00 AM.
:::


**Step 4 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
