---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the Box Solution"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the Box Solution"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the Box Solution

The jobs that run analysis tasks in the Box Solution requires the host list to be assigned.

**Dependencies**

- The .Active Directory Inventory Job Group must be successfully run prior to running this Job Group
- 2-Box_Import Job – Imports data collected by the 1-Box_Access Scans Job and 1-Box_Activity Scans
  Job

**Targeted Hosts**

- Enterprise_ID for the target Box environment

Within host inventory, the Box hosts will return a HostStatus of **Offline**.

If multiple Enterprise_IDs are to be scanned, it is necessary to duplicate the jobs within the
0.Collection Job Group for each target host. Since the 2-Box_Import Job must always be run after the
1-Box_Access Scans Job and 1-Box_Activity Scans Job, it is a best practice to set up sub-job groups
for each target named to identify the target, for example EMEA Box. Copying the jobs will append a
number to the job’s name. Once authorization codes have been generated for each 1-Box_Access Scans
Job and 1-Box_Activity Scans Job, then the solution can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Connection Profile**

The Box Solution requires a specific credential for the Connection Profile which has access to the
SA Installer location. It is also necessary to authenticate to the target Box environment, which is
done through the Box Data Collector query configuration. An Enterprise Admin account (or Co-Admin
account with permission to **Run new reports and access existing reports** enabled) credential is
needed to generate an authorization code in the form of an Access Token. This can be done through
the query configuration either in the 1-Box_Access Scans Job’ Authentication wizard page or the
1-Box_Activity Scans Job’s Authentication wizard page of the Box Data Collector Wizard. See the
[Box Data Collector](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/datacollector/box/overview.md)
topic for additional information.

**Access Token**

The Access Token is valid for 60 days. If Box scans are running on a regular schedule, then the
Access Token automatically refreshes once an hour. However, if it has been more than 60 days since
the last scan, it is necessary to regenerate the Access Token.

**Schedule Frequency**

The Box Job Group can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Query Configuration**

This solution can be run with the default query configuration. However, the following queries in the
0.Collection Job Group can be modified to limit the depth of the scan:

- 1-Box_Access Scans Scan query
- 1-Box_Activity Scans Activity Scan query

The Box_Import Job's Import query is preconfigured to run a full import and should not be modified.

**Analysis Configuration**

This solution can be run with the default analysis configuration. However, the following parameters
can be modified:

- The @STALETHRESHOLD parameter determines the number of days after which content is considered
  stale. It is set to default of 30 days. The @STALETHRESHOLD parameter can be customized in the
  following analysis tasks:
    - 2.Content > Box_FileMetrics in the File Metrics Details analysis task
    - 2.Content > Box_FolderMetrics Folder in the Metrics Details analysis task

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Prerequisite: Run the .Active Directory Inventory Job Group.

**Step 2 –** (Optional) Modify query configurations for the 0.Collection Job Group to limit the scan
depth.

**Step 3 –** In the 1-Box_Access Scans Job, configure the Scan query to generate an authentication
code to authenticate to the targeted Box environment. This step only needs to be run prior to the
first scan.

**Step 4 –** (Optional) Modify analysis task parameters for the reporting jobs.

**Step 5 –** Schedule the Box Job Group to run as desired.

:::note
The 0.Collection > 2-Box_Import Job must be run after the 1-Box_Access Scans Job and
1-Box_Activity Scans Job because it imports the data collected by the scan jobs.
:::


**Step 6 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
