---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 5.Domains Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 5.Domains Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 5.Domains Job Group

The **Active Directory > 5.Domains** job group has been configured by default to run with the
default settings. It can be run directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

This job group does not have dependencies.

**Targeted Hosts**

The **AD_DomainControllers** job has been configured to inherit its host from the **5.Domains >
0.Collection > Settings > Host List Assignment** node. It is set to target the ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER
PER DOMAIN host list.

The host list assignment for the **0.Collection > AD_TimeSync** and the **0.Collection** >
**AD_DSRM** jobs have been configured at the job’s **Configure** > **Hosts** node. They are set to
run against the ALL DOMAIN CONTROLLERS host list.

The ONE DOMAIN CONTROLLER PER DOMAIN and ALL DOMAIN CONTROLLERS host lists are dynamic host lists
based on the host inventory value in the isDomainController field in the Host Master Table.

The **5.Domains > AD_DomainInfo** job needs to be set to run against the following:

- Custom host list with one domain controller per forest

**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile should be assigned at the **5.Domains > Settings > Connection** node with
Domain Administrator privileges.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

:::info
Run the jobs in the **5.Domains** job group together and in order by running the
entire job group, instead of the individual jobs.
:::


**Query Configuration**

The 5.Domains > 0.Collection > AD_DomainControllers job should be run with the default query
configurations. Most of these queries are preconfigured for this Job Group and should not be
modified.

The following query can be modified to use a secure connection with TLS/SSL:

- Domain Controller Listing Query which uses the
  [LDAP Data Collector](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/admin/datacollector/ldap.md)

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Set the host on the AD_DomainInfo job.

**Step 2 –** Run a host discovery query to discover domain controllers.

**Step 3 –** Set a Connection Profile on the job group.

**Step 4 –** Schedule the 5.Domains job group to run as desired.

**Step 5 –** Review the reports generated by the 5.Domains job group.
