---
title: "Browser Router now supports Chrome on Non-Domain Joined machines"
description: "Browser Router now supports Chrome on Non-Domain Joined machines"
sidebar_position: 20
---
# Browser Router now supports Chrome on Non-Domain Joined machines

If you are using PP Cloud and PP Browser router, this is the video to see how to enable Chrome to
"Other" browser routing. (Chrome to FF, Chrome to IE, Chrome to Edge, etc.)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CGsKr4_aBFs" title="Endpoint Policy Manager: Browser Router now supports Chrome on Non-Domain Joined machines" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen="1"></iframe>

### PolicyPak: Browser Router now supports Chrome on Non-Domain Joined machines

Hi. This is Jeremy Moskowitz. In this video, I'm going to show you how we now support the Chrome
browser with non-domain joined machines and Netwrix Endpoint Policy Manager (formerly PolicyPak)
Cloud. In previous instances of Endpoint Policy Manager, we didn't have any support at all for
non-domain joined machines and Browser Router with Chrome. In this video, I'm going to show you how
it's supported.

First things first, I'm going to download the latest "Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud Client." You
already are probably joined to Endpoint Policy Manager Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud, so you don't
have to do this. Like I said, you've already done this and auto-magically in the background you're
going to get the latest Endpoint Policy Manager client-side extension and it will have the support
built in.

When you do this, I'm also assuming that you have a route. This is Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud. I
have a route here that says any time I go to Endpoint Policy Manager.com or anything like that open
it up in Firefox ("\*pak\* to Firefox"). I want to show you how to go from Chrome to Firefox or
anything like that.

Now that I have the Endpoint Policy Manager Cloud Client here, let me show you the before behavior
and the after behavior. If you were to just go into "Google Chrome" here and try to go to
"www.Endpoint Policy Manager.com," it's not going to work. That's still the deal. It's still going
to keep it trapped here in Chrome land.

Now the end user needs to either click on this little guy right here. It says, "Customize and
control Google Chrome." That's choice number one. You can see where it says "New extension added
(Endpoint Policy Manager Browser Router Chrome Extension)." You can click there. That's the first
choice. There we go: "New extension added (Endpoint Policy Manager Browser Router Chrome
Extension)." You've done that. That's thing number one.

If you don't want to do that, you can also go to "chrome://extensions" and then down here on the
bottom you can click "Enable." That's a second choice. Now you can see that the Browser Router
Chrome extension is ready to go.

If we were to now be in "Google Chrome" and we were to say I want to go to "www.endpointpolicymanager.com," what
it's going to do is close Chrome and open up the browser of your choice, which in my case is
Firefox. I don't know if it has ever been run before so it might ask for first run stuff. Yeah,
there we go, first run stuff.

The point is that if you want Chrome support with your non-domain joined machines in Endpoint Policy
Manager Cloud, that is the deal. The deal is that each user needs to manually specify to turn on the
Chrome extension. That's as far as we could get. There's just no way for us to automatically turn it
on for the user. I hope that gets you at least to the one-yard line and you can show your users how
to get to the goal.

All right, I hope that helps you out. Take care.
