---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the Unix Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the Unix Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the Unix Job Group

The Unix job group has been configured by default to run with the default settings. It can be run
directly or scheduled.

**Dependencies**

If applicable, the **.NIS Inventory** job group can be run to enable reporting on users and groups
from NIS environments.

**Target Host(s)**

All Unix Servers. Create a custom host list in Host Management that contains all Unix servers that
are in scope to be auditing with the Unix solution.

The Unix job group has been configured to inherit the host list assignment from the solution level.
The host list assignment should be assigned under the **Unix** > **Settings** > **Host List
Assignment** node. Select the UNIX servers host list created previously.

**Connection Profile**

Set a Connection Profile on the Unix job group with root permissions for Unix/Linux.

If the Root permission is unavailable, a least privileged model can be used. See the
[Least Privilege Model](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/requirements/unix/target.md#least-privilege-model) topic for
permissions needed to target the supported platforms for data collection.

**Schedule Frequency**

Schedule the Unix Solution or individual job groups to run as desired.

**History Retention**

This is not supported in this job group and should be turned off.

**Run at the Job Group Level**

It is a common practice to run the job in the **1.Users and Groups** job group by running the entire
job group, instead of the individual jobs.

**Query Configuration**

The queries in this job group are preconfigured to run with the default configurations.

**Analysis Configuration**

The analysis tasks in this job group are preconfigured to run with the default configurations.

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Run a Host Discovery Query to create a host list with All Unix Servers, and assign that
host list under the **Unix** > **Settings** > **Host List Assignment** node.

**Step 2 –** (Optional) If applicable, run the **.NIS Inventory** job group run to enable reporting
on users and groups from NIS environments.

**Step 3 –** Set a Connection Profile on the Unix job group.

**Step 4 –** Schedule the Unix solution or individual job groups to run as desired.

**Step 5 –** Review the reports generated by the Unix Solution.
