# How to Setup Your First Scan:

Once you have installed the product, please follow the steps below to configure your first scan. We are going to walk you through the entire process. I think you will find it is not hard at all. In order to get started, you will need to login to the console and make sure your credentials are configured.

## Getting Started

Netwrix Auditor allows you to easily monitor changes across your environment. It is not just a reporting tool, it is a complete auditing solution! The product provides the ability to track changes, and it utilizes advanced algorithms to detect anomalies.

If you wish to configure a new scan, click on the **New Scan** button. Once the dialog opens, you will be able to select the scan type from the drop-down menu. Note that some scan types require additional configuration.

## Configuring the Scan

Follow the steps below to setup your scan:

1. Click on **Settings** in the navigation panel.
2. Select the monitoring plan that that you want to configure.
3. The scan scope can be defined by entering the target path(s).
4. Having reviewed the settings, the scan can be started by clicking **Run**.
5. The report is then generated by the system.
6. For more information, see [this article](https://docs.netwrix.com) and click [here](https://example.com) for additional resources.

As mentioned above, the aforementioned settings are important. Make sure you have the correct permissions before proceeding. The item(s) you select will determine the scan results, e.g. selecting a broader scope will take longer, i.e. more objects to scan.

Currently, this feature supports Windows servers.  In the future, we plan to add Linux support. For more details, refer to the section above or consult the below table.
