---
title: "SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job"
description: "SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job"
sidebar_position: 60
---

# SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job

SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth will register an Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) application for
authentication and provision appropriate permissions for SharePoint Online scans. It requires:

- A Connection Profile containing the following two user credentials, both with an Account Type of
  **Task (Local)**:

    - Microsoft Entra ID Global Admin credential
    - A credential with the username `newapp` that contains the password for the new application

- Microsoft Graph API PowerShell module to be installed on targeted hosts

## Instantiate the SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job.

Follow the steps to instantiate the SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job.

**Step 1 –** In Enterprise Auditor navigate to the SharePoint Job Group (or any other Job Group you
wish to place the SP_RegistureAzureApp job into).

**Step 2 –** Click **Add Instant Job** to open the Instant Job Wizard.

**Step 3 –** Install the SP_RegisterAzureAppAuth Job from the Instant Job Library under the
SharePoint library. After installation, the job tree automatically refreshes with the new job
available within the selected Job Group.

**Step 4 –** On the job description page, in the Configuration section, select the edit button for
**The new application’s display name** and enter the name you want to apply to the registered
Microsoft Entra ID application. Click **Save**.

**Step 5 –** On the **Configure** > **Hosts** node, select the targeted host. The targeted host
should be the Microsoft Entra ID tenant on which you want to install the Microsoft Entra ID
application (for example, `myorg.onmicrosoft.com`). Click **Save**. The job is now ready to be run.

After the job successfully runs it will open a browser window to Microsoft Entra ID that, when
logged-in as a Global Administrator, allows the user to grant administrator consent to the
Application's configured API Permissions. If the login attempt fails, or the user closes the
browser, they will need to login to Microsoft Entra ID as a Global Administrator and navigate to the
Application's API Permissions to grant Admin Consent before the Application can be used for
SharePoint scans in Enterprise Auditor.

**Additional Considerations**

- After the job successfully runs, there will be a new Connection Profile for this Application.
  Restart the Enterprise Auditor Console and enter a password to use this Connection Profile.
- The password is the location of the PFX file generated by the script (in the \PrivateAssemblies
  directory), the Microsoft Entra ID application's password, and a numeric designator for the
  Microsoft 365 environment (0 is the default for production environments; the other supported
  options are 1 for pre-production environments, 2 for China, 3 for Germany, 4 for US Government, 5
  for US Government-High, and 6 for US Government-DoD). To allow for multiple unique certificates
  for different Microsoft Entra ID tenants to be stored on the same Enterprise Auditor server, the
  script appends the targeted host name (without the domain) to the filename of the PFX file
  generated by the script. For example, if the targeted host is `myorg.onmicrosoft.com`, then the
  password for the connection profile would be:

**...\STEALTHbits\StealthAUDIT\PrivateAssemblies\spaa_cert_myorg.pfx,YourPasswordHere,0**
