---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 3. Databases Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 3. Databases Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 3. Databases Job Group

**Dependencies**

This job group requires the following items to be installed and configured on the Access Analyzer
Console:

- Microsoft MAPI CDO installed
- Access Analyzer MAPI CDO installed
- **Settings** > **Exchange** node configured

**Targeted Hosts**

The **0. Collection** > **1. Local** job group has been set to run against:

- Local host

The **0. Collection** > **2. PF** job group has been set to run against the following default
dynamic host list:

- Exchange MB Servers

:::note
Default dynamic host lists are populated from hosts in the Host Master Table which meet
the host inventory criteria for the list. Ensure the appropriate host lists have been populated
through host inventory results.
:::


**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile must be set directly on the EX_DBInfo Job and the EX_PFInfo Job. See the
[Exchange PowerShell Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/requirements/exchange/support/powershell.md) topic for
the Ex_DBInfo Job required permissions. See the
[MAPI-Based Data Collector Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/requirements/exchange/support/mapi.md) topic for
the EX_PFInfo Job requirements.

See the [Connection](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/admin/settings/connection/overview.md) topic for additional
information.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group has been designed to run daily to collect information about the size of databases in
the environment.

:::info
Run this Job Group at 3:00 AM.
:::


**History Retention**

History retention should not be enabled on this job group. History is kept through analysis tasks.
Modify the following analysis tasks to customize the amount of history which is kept:

| Job Name    | Analysis Task Name    | Default History |
| ----------- | --------------------- | --------------- |
| EX_DBSizing | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |

**Query Configuration**

The 3. Databases Job Group is designed to be run with the default query configurations. However, the
following query can be modified:

- **0.Collection** > **1. Local** > **EX_DBInfo** Job – **Exchange 2010 Store Size** Query

No other queries should be modified.

**Analysis Configuration**

The 3. Databases Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations.

:::warning
Most of the analysis tasks are preconfigured and should never be modified or
deselected. There are some that are deselected by default, as they are for troubleshooting purposes.
:::


The following analysis task should not be deselected, but the parameters can be modified:

- **EX_DBSizing** Job – **SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Set a Connection Profile on the jobs that run data collection.

**Step 2 –** Schedule the 3. Databases Job Group to run daily.

**Step 3 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
