---
title: "Recommended Configurations for the 1. HUB Metrics Job Group"
description: "Recommended Configurations for the 1. HUB Metrics Job Group"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configurations for the 1. HUB Metrics Job Group

**Dependencies**

The following Job Groups need to be successfully run:

- Active Directory Inventory Job Group

**Targeted Hosts**

The 0. Collection Job Group has been set to run against the following default dynamic host lists:

- Exchange 2016 MB Servers
- Exchange 2013 MB Servers
- Exchange HUB Servers

:::note
Default dynamic host lists are populated from hosts in the Host Master Table which meet
the host inventory criteria for the list. Ensure the appropriate host lists have been populated
through host inventory results.
:::


:::info
Only modify host lists in the 0. Collection Job Group.
:::


**Connection Profile**

A Connection Profile must be set directly on the EX_MetricsCollection Job and the EX_MetricsDetails
Job. See the [Exchange Mail-Flow Permissions](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/requirements/exchange/support/mailflow.md)
topic for required permissions.

See the [Connection](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/admin/settings/connection/overview.md) topic for additional
information.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group has been designed to run daily to process and collect the previous day’s message
tracking logs. Run this job after 12:01 AM when the logs on the Exchange servers have rolled over to
the next day.

:::info
Run this job group at 1:00 AM.
:::


**History Retention**

History retention should not be enabled on this job group. History is kept through analysis tasks.
Modify the following analysis tasks to customize the amount of history which is kept:

| Job Name             | Analysis Task Name    | Default History |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | --------------- |
| EX_MetricsCollection | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |
| EX_MetricsDetails    | SET HISTORY RETENTION | 6 Months        |

See the [Exchange History Retention](collection/ex_metricscollection.md#exchange-history-retention)
topic for additional information.

**Query Configuration**

The 1. HUB Metrics Job Group is designed to be run with the default query configurations with the
following exceptions:

- EX_MetricsDetails Job – The **Activity Metrics** Query requires domains to be configured
- All queries in the 1.HUB Metrics Job Group that use the ExchangeMetrics Data Collector –
  (Optional) The **Enable Persistent Log State** option can be enabled on the Options page of the
  Exchange Metrics Data Collector Wizard to search the log from where the previous search left off.
  See the [ExchangeMetrics: Options](/docs/accessanalyzer/12.0/admin/datacollector/exchangemetrics/options.md) topic
  for additional information.

**Analysis Configuration**

The 1. HUB Metrics Job Group should be run with the default analysis configurations.

:::warning
Most of these analysis tasks are preconfigured and should not be modified or
deselected. There are a few which are deselected by default, as they are for troubleshooting
purposes.
:::


The following analysis tasks should not be deselected, but their parameters can be modified:

- **0. Collection** > **EX_MetricsCollection** Job – **08. SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task
- **0. Collection** > **EX_MetricsDetails** Job – **02. SET HISTORY RETENTION** Analysis Task

**Workflow**

**Step 1 –** Set a Connection Profile on the jobs that run data collection.

**Step 2 –** Schedule the **1. HUB Metrics** Job Group to run daily.

:::info
Run at 1:00 AM.
:::


**Step 3 –** Review the reports generated by the jobs.
