---
title: "Recommended Configuration for the Db2 Solution"
description: "Recommended Configuration for the Db2 Solution"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Recommended Configuration for the Db2 Solution

The Db2 Solution has been configured to inherit down from the **Db2** > **Settings** node. However,
it is best practice to assign the host list and the Connection Profile at the data collection level,
the 0.Collection Job Group. Once these are assigned to the job group, it can be run directly or
scheduled.

**Dependencies**

- Successful installation of the IBM Data Server Client. In addition, the following clients and
  drivers must be installed:

    - IBM Data Server Driver Package (DS Driver)
    - IBM Data Server Driver for JDBC and SQLJ (JCC Driver)
    - IBM Data Server Driver for ODBC and CLI (CLI Driver)
    - IBM Data Server Runtime Client
    - IBM Data Server Client
    - IBM Database Add-Ins for Visual Studio
    - IBM .NET Driver NuGet

    :::note
    All necessary clients and drivers can be found on IBM Support's
    [Download initial version 11.5 clients and drivers](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/download-initial-version-115-clients-and-drivers)
    page.
    :::


- .Instance Discovery Job Group run successfully

**Targeted Host(s)**

The Db2 Job Group has been configured to inherit the host list assignment from the collection group
level.

The host list assignment should be assigned under the **Databases** > **0.Collection** > **Db2** >
**Settings** > **Host List Assignment** node. The Local host box is checked by default.

**Connection Profile**

The SQL Data Collector requires a specific set of permissions. See the Permissions section for
necessary permissions. The account used can be either an Active Directory account or a SQL account.
Once the account has been provisioned, create a custom Connection Profile containing the credentials
for the targeted environment. See the
[SQL Custom Connection Profile & Default Dynamic Host List](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/datacollector/sql/configurejob.md)
topic for additional information.

The Connection Profile should be assigned under the Databases > 0.Collection > Db2 > Settings >
Connection node. It is set to Use the Default Profile, as configured at the global settings level.
However, since this may not be the Connection Profile with the necessary permissions for the
assigned hosts, click the radio button for the Select one of the following user defined profiles
option and select the appropriate Connection Profile drop-down menu.

See the
[Connection](/docs/accessanalyzer/11.6/admin/settings/connection/overview.md)
topic for additional information.

**Schedule Frequency**

This job group can be scheduled to run as desired.

**Run Order**

The 0.Collection Jobs must be run first and in order. The other Db2 sub-job groups can be run in any
order, together or individually, after running the 0.Collection Job Group.

:::info
Run the solution at the top level.
:::


**Workflow**

1. Install IBM Db2 Server Client and required clients and drivers
2. Configure and assign host list and connection profile(s)
3. Define the connection information
4. Schedule the .Instance Discovery job group and 0.Collection job group to run as desired
5. Review the reports generated by the 0.Collection job group
